Using the "Advanced Network Packet Sniffer" tool involves several steps, from setting up and configuring the tool to capturing, filtering, and analyzing network packets. Below are the detailed steps on how to use the tool:

Step 1: Installation and Setup

Install Python: Ensure that you have Python installed on your system. You can download it from the official Python website: python.org.

Install Scapy: The tool relies on the Scapy library for packet sniffing. Install Scapy using pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install scapy
Download the Tool: Download the "Advanced Network Packet Sniffer" tool source code or executable if available.

Project Structure: If you have the source code, make sure you have a directory structure that includes the tool's source files.

Step 2: Configuration

Before you can start capturing and analyzing packets, you'll need to configure the tool to your specific requirements. This can typically be done through a user-friendly command-line interface (CLI) or graphical user interface (GUI) if available.

Run the tool with a configuration command, which might look like this:

bash
Copy code
python sniffer.py configure
The configuration process should allow you to specify the following settings:

Network Interface: Select the network interface you want to monitor (e.g., eth0, wlan0).
Packet Filtering: Define filters for protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP), ports (e.g., 80 for HTTP), and source/destination IP addresses. You can filter packets based on your specific criteria.
Logging Options: Configure log file settings, such as log file rotation and file paths.
Alerting Rules: If real-time alerting is supported, you can set up alerting rules based on specific conditions (e.g., detect a sudden increase in traffic).
Step 3: Packet Capture

After configuring the tool, you can start capturing packets. This can be done by running a capture command:

bash
Copy code
python sniffer.py capture
The tool will continuously capture packets on the specified network interface. You can choose to capture for a specific duration or let it run indefinitely.

Step 4: Packet Analysis

As packets are captured, the tool will perform real-time analysis. It will extract key information from each packet, such as source and destination IPs, protocols, port numbers, TCP flags, and payloads.

This information will be displayed to you in a structured format. The tool may also include timestamps for each packet, making it easy to understand when the packets were captured.

Step 5: Packet Filtering

Based on the configuration you set earlier, the tool will filter packets in real-time. You'll see only the packets that match your specified criteria in terms of protocol, port, source IP, and destination IP.

Step 6: Exporting Captured Packets

If you need to export the captured packets for further analysis, you can do so using the export feature. This will create a PCAP file that you can open in packet analysis tools like Wireshark.

bash
Copy code
python sniffer.py export captured_packets.pcap
Step 7: Real-time Alerting (Optional)

If you set up real-time alerting rules during the configuration, the tool will generate alerts when specific conditions are met. Alerts will be displayed or logged for your attention.

Step 8: Responsible Usage and Legal Compliance

Always use the tool responsibly and in compliance with legal and ethical standards. Unauthorized packet sniffing can infringe on privacy and may be illegal in many jurisdictions. Be aware of data protection and privacy regulations.

Step 9: Documentation

The tool may come with user documentation that explains its features, usage, and ethical considerations. Refer to this documentation for further guidance.
